{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue153;}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 2011 Innovation Grant Application\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 \
Project name: Carbon Fiber Trumpet\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec2 WyoLum may post my project publicly.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Summary:\
	Music is all around us. It is crucial to most of our lives. But everyone\'92s exposure to music shouldn\'92t end at listening. Many studies have shown that people who play music are more intelligent in several fields such as math, reading, spatial skills, and memory.
\fs16 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super 
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  These increases in intelligence also increase as people practice music more often. This means that it would be incredibly useful to our education systems if every student were able to play a musical instrument. Unfortunately, with music programs in schools being quickly defunded, this goal is slipping away. With today\'92s economy, people just can\'92t afford to buy their children or themselves a good instrument. And if they can\'92t afford an instrument that sounds good then they decide that there\'92s no point to playing an instrument and they just don\'92t bother. Even if a family can afford to buy their child an expensive instrument, they may not trust them with such an expensive item because instruments are usually fairly delicate objects.\
	That\'92s where I come in. I have an idea for an instrument that would sound good, perform well in harsh environments, and be relatively cheap. I want to create a carbon fiber trumpet. Let\'92s look at the first part of this: sounding good.\
	Traditionally, trumpets are made out of brass. The problem is that brass is very heavy (high density) and soft (low stiffness/modulus of elasticity) which means it isn\'92t very good at transferring vibrations.
\fs16 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super 
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  Instead it dampens them. Carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP), on the other hand, is very light (low density) and very stiff (high modulus of elasticity).
\fs16 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super 
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  This means a trumpet made from CFRP would most likely require less energy to play and would be louder because it wouldn\'92t stifle vibrations as much as brass.\
	One important aspect of an instrument sounding good is that it is in tune. When brass instruments go into different environments they change size. This is due to the fact that brass has a fairly high coefficient of thermal expansion. When the brass tubes expand, it makes the instrument longer, thus making the instrument flat. The instrument then has to be retuned or else it will sound horrible. CFRP generally has a much lower coefficient of thermal expansion than brass. This means that you could just tune it once and the changes with different temperatures will be so minor that you can basically ignore them. This is important for beginners who often have a hard time figuring out whether they in tune with others or not.\
	Marching band is a large part of many high school bands. Having an instrument that is light-weight is very important. Carbon fiber has a very high strength to weight ratio, meaning that a CFRP trumpet would weigh far less than a brass trumpet. It would weigh less than half the weight of a brass trumpet.\
	It would also be much stronger than a brass trumpet, which is very important because beginners are likely to drop their trumpets a few times in their lives. CFRP doesn\'92t dent, when it breaks it breaks completely. This means that if it is damaged it has to be fixed and cannot be played with a bad sound from dents. Beginners may not notice a dent or bend they accidentally create that would be detrimental to their sound.\
	One of the most annoying parts of playing trumpet is that it fills up with condensation. Because trumpets are made from brass, they transfer thermal energy really well. This means that as your hot humid breath passes through the instrument, the water vapor condenses into liquid. If you are playing outside in the cold, you have to empty your spit valve after about 10 minutes of playing or else it sounds like you\'92re humming through a straw in a cup of water. Carbon fiber often has a lower thermal conductivity than brass which means it will take away less heat from the air, and therefore create less condensation.\
	
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wait a second, isn\'92t carbon fiber that ridiculously expensive material they make fancy airplanes out of? How do you expect me to believe it would make a cheap trumpet?
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 Well it\'92s simple really. Carbon fiber is extremely expensive by weight, but since it\'92s so much stronger by weight than traditional materials, you also don\'92t need nearly as much. So it ends up being only slightly more expensive than brass. The reason why it makes a cheaper trumpet is that trumpets are quite difficult to make out of brass. They require skilled craftsmen to coax it along every step of the way, so by the time your trumpet is finished, it\'92s been marked up 2000% above the price of materials. Carbon fiber is much easier to build with than brass is. All you need is one mold for each piece and then you can make as many as you want for just a little more than the price of materials. That would take the cost of a trumpet much lower, hopefully to a level that a lot more people can afford.\
	I plan to make every part of this project completely open source. I will release design files, build logs, and eventually detailed instructions about the build. \
\
The project is currently a concept. No money has been spent on fabricating any pieces of it as of yet. The designs are in a medium-early stage. Any preliminary designs are attached as .dxf files.\
\
6 months after receiving the grant, the project would be quite far along. I expect to have a prototype natural trumpet/bugle (much simpler, no valves) fully made by then. I also expect to be far along in the design of a full featured trumpet.\
\
Here is a timeline broken up into 6 blocks of time. I expect each block to take about a month, but they may take more or less depending on what else I have going on at the time.\
Block 1: Acquiring materials - This is when I will order and receive most of the materials I need to get started.\
Block 2: Material testing - Since I have never worked with carbon fiber before, I will need some time to test it out and adjust my designs accordingly. Design changes include number of layers of carbon fiber changes, manufacturing technique changes, acoustical changes, and structural changes.\
Blocks 3 and 4: Building a natural trumpet - To make things simpler, I will start by building a natural trumpet (a trumpet without valves) so I can figure out if it is feasible to build a full trumpet. The natural trumpet will essentially be a bugle that has the same dimensions as a normal trumpet, but without valves. During this time I will also work on designs for a normal trumpet with valves.\
Blocks 5 and 6: Full trumpet - There may be some delay getting to this step, depending on how difficult it is to acquire valves. This step is similar to the last, although it also includes valves and extra tubing, making it slightly more complicated.\
\
The grant money would be primarily used to buy materials as well as some tools and safety supplies. While intelligently used carbon fiber is not prohibitively expensive, it is not a particularly cheap material for prototyping designs. I have laid out exactly where the money will be going in this table:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa120\qc\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec0 Item	Location	Quantity	Price per 1\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa240\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
All weather epoxy	\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.solarcomposites.com/composites/Epoxy0308.html\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec0 	1	$73.99\
1 foot of 0.5\'94 carbon fiber fabric tubing	\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.solarcomposites.com/composites/carbon%20fiber%20sleeves.html\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec0 	100	$1.22\
1 foot 1.0\'94 carbon fiber fabric tubing	\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.solarcomposites.com/composites/carbon%20fiber%20sleeves.html\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec0 	25	$2.44\
1 yard long 50\'94 wide 3K carbon fiber fabric	\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.solarcomposites.com/composites/compositecarbon.html\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec0 	1	$29.95\
1 foot .79\'94 treated heat shrink tubing	\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.solarcomposites.com/composites/carbon%20fiber%20sleeves.html\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec0 	20	$1.79\
1 foot .5\'94 treated heat shrink tubing	\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.solarcomposites.com/composites/carbon%20fiber%20sleeves.html\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec0 	2	$1.39\
Organic vapor respirator	\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec2 OSH	\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 1	~$30\
Box of 100 nitrile gloves	\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.solarcomposites.com/safe.html\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec0 	1	~$10\
Aluminum rods, tubes, and plates for use as molds	\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://onlinemetals.com\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec0 	NA	estimated less than $50\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qr\pardirnatural

\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Total before taxes and shipping: $415.52\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This leaves about $500 for unexpected costs and income taxes. I also have a few items that are optional that would increase the quality of the trumpet if I end up having the budget left for them before block 5. These items include a tool post grinder, vacuum bagging supplies, and other various tools.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec2 Brief Bios and Backgrounds\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec2 Project Leader: Kyle Bartholomew\
Contributing team members: None at this time.\
Contact email address: beak90@gmail.com\
Contact phone number: 1(818) 952-9020\
Recent projects or relevant hobbies of team members: I have been playing trumpet for almost 10 years so music is very important to me. I\'92ve also been playing drums for about 4 years. I\'92ve always liked building things. I have an early Makerbot 3D printer (#448) and I have designed many simple things for it.
\fs16 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super 
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  I am also interested in machining and I have a metal lathe. I have been programming for almost 4 years, and I have 2 iPhone apps on the app store with over 350,000 downloads. I\'92m highly involved in my high school\'92s engineering club. I have built a partially successful quadrocopter with custom hardware and electronics (it still doesn\'92t fly stably)
\fs16 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super 
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub , I\'92ve designed and built a simple pvc trebuchet (in less than 2 hours), I\'92ve built a custom boombox using a car stereo system, I\'92ve converted a fog machine to run wirelessly (also only in a few hours), and I\'92ve built and programmed a Parallax Propeller LED controller. Oh and I\'92m 16 years old.\
\
OSHW references: This project is such a new different idea that there is almost no one who has done anything like it. I was able to find one company who makes a trumpet with a carbon fiber bell, and their trumpet reportedly has incredible sound quality so that was very encouraging for me. Here is that trumpet: \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.dacarbo.ch/en/trumpets\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec2 \
Other than that, I found many many sources with information about trumpets and about carbon fiber construction. The list of those sources (mostly for my own reference) is included in the file \'93resources.pdf\'94.
\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Endnotes:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa200\pardirnatural

\fs13\fsmilli6667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up0 \super \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 1
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.parentingscience.com/music-and-intelligence.html
\fs13\fsmilli6667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super \ulnone \strokec2 2
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.matweb.com/search/DataSheet.aspx?MatGUID=d3bd4617903543ada92f4c101c2a20e5
\fs13\fsmilli6667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super \ulnone \strokec2 3
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.matweb.com/search/datasheet.aspx?MatGUID=39e40851fc164b6c9bda29d798bf3726
\fs13\fsmilli6667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super \ulnone \strokec2 4
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.makerbot448.wordpress.com\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone \strokec2 
\fs13\fsmilli6667 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super 5
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://www.thingiverse.com/beak90
\fs13\fsmilli6667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super \ulnone \strokec2 6
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub  \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 \strokec3 http://beak90.wordpress.com/category/quadrocopter/}